---
layout: project
title: Heat Transfer Problem Set Reflection 
description: Reflection
technologies: [N/A]
image: /assets/images/HeatTransfer.png
---

This problem set focused on continuing to practice problems involving thermal resistance networks and calculating the resistances, surface temperatures, and the efficiency and power of the system. I was able to apply resistances both in series and in parallel and use them to calculate the heat transfer. The main assumptions I made when solving this problem was steady, state, 1D heat flow, constant material properties, and thermal insulation on the backside surface. I thought this problem did a great job of combining lots of different topics we have covered in class (heat transfer, therrmal resistance, irradiation, and solving for variables in between), which allowed me to understand how all these topics build upon each other and serve as tools to evaluate the performance of a thermal system. I found it to be really useful to make a schematic before starting the problem, as it allowed me to readily identify the direction of heat transfer modes between the different surfaces and better approach solving for the surface temperatures. 

This problem set also introduced the topic of extended surfaces modeled as fins. The fin assumption is a simplification that assumes that the temperature within the fin occurs in one direction, and that the heat transfer coefficient is constant across the fin. It allows us to easily compute the temperature distribution along the length, the total heat transfer, and perfromance metrics like the efficiency and effectiveness. This has been one of my favorite topics so far as it brings together  fundamental topics of heeat transfer such as Fourier’s Law, Convection, Energy Balance, and Boundary Conditions under a single framework, expanding our toolkit to analyze more complex thermal systems. Thus, fin analysis was a useful topic because it reinforced the idea that many heat transfer problems can be solved by starting with basic physical principles and applying a mathematical model to describe the system. I also gained more insight into how engineers can set parameters when building their system to ensure that it works (for example having the system operate below a specified temperature limit), and how they can evaluate its performance. 

<a href="/fa25-portfolio-montserrat-mccoy/assets/pdfs/HeatTransferPset4.pdf" target="_blank">View Problem Set</a>
